README.md, before:

# Technical Writer Portfolio

## About the Project

A modern, responsive portfolio website built with **React** and **Vite**, designed to showcase technical writing expertise, professional experience, and portfolio projects. The site features a clean, accessible design with dark mode support and smooth navigation between multiple sections.

This portfolio demonstrates proficiency in full-stack web development, modern frontend tooling, and deployment best practices using GitHub Pages and GitHub Actions for continuous deployment.

## 🌐 Live Site

**Visit the portfolio:** [https://amcrain.github.io/Technical-Writing-Portfolio/](https://amcrain.github.io/Technical-Writing-Portfolio/)

The site is automatically deployed on every push to the `main` branch via GitHub Actions.

## ✨ Key Features

- **Responsive Design**: Optimized for desktop, tablet, and mobile devices using Tailwind CSS
- **Dark Mode**: Toggle between light and dark themes with persistent user preference
- **Multi-Section Navigation**: Easy navigation between About, Resume, and Portfolio sections
- **Portfolio Showcase**: Display of professional projects and accomplishments
- **Resume Section**: Organized experience, education, and skills
- **Professional Layout**: Clean, modern UI with smooth transitions and animations
- **Accessibility**: Built with semantic HTML and ARIA attributes for inclusive design
- **Fast Performance**: Optimized build with Vite for quick load times
- **Automated Deployment**: GitHub Actions CI/CD pipeline for seamless updates

## 🛠 Tech Stack

- **Frontend**: React 19, TypeScript
- **Build Tool**: Vite
- **Styling**: Tailwind CSS
- **Deployment**: GitHub Pages
- **CI/CD**: GitHub Actions

## 📦 Getting Started

### Prerequisites
- Node.js 20.19+ or 22+
- npm or yarn

### Installation

1. Clone the repository:
   ```bash
   git clone https://github.com/amcrain/Technical-Writing-Portfolio.git
   cd Technical-Writing-Portfolio
   ```

2. Install dependencies:
   ```bash
   npm install
   ```

3. Run the development server:
   ```bash
   npm run dev
   ```
   The site will be available at `http://localhost:5173/`

### Build & Deployment

Build for production:
```bash
npm run build
```

Deploy to GitHub Pages:
```bash
npm run deploy
```

The GitHub Actions workflow will automatically deploy on every push to `main`.

## 📝 Project Structure

```
├── components/          # React components (Header, Footer, sections, icons)
├── .github/workflows/   # GitHub Actions CI/CD pipeline
├── index.html          # Entry HTML file
├── App.tsx             # Main App component
├── index.tsx           # React entry point
├── constants.ts        # Content data and configuration
├── types.ts            # TypeScript type definitions
├── vite.config.mjs     # Vite configuration
└── README.md           # Project documentation
```

## 🚀 Workflow

1. Make changes locally in development mode (`npm run dev`)
2. Test and preview changes
3. Commit and push to GitHub
4. GitHub Actions automatically builds and deploys to GitHub Pages
5. Site updates live within seconds

## 📄 License

This project is licensed under the ISC License.

## 🤝 Contributing

Contributions, suggestions, and feedback are welcome! 

---

**Built with React, Vite, and deployed on GitHub Pages**

Commit message:

docs: add Assets/PDFs, viewer behavior, and base-URL notes to README

README.md, after:

# Technical Writer Portfolio

## About the Project

A modern, responsive portfolio website built with **React** and **Vite**, designed to showcase technical writing expertise, professional experience, and portfolio projects. The site features a clean, accessible design with dark mode support and smooth navigation between multiple sections.

This portfolio demonstrates proficiency in full-stack web development, modern frontend tooling, and deployment best practices using GitHub Pages and GitHub Actions for continuous deployment.

## 🌐 Live Site

**Visit the portfolio:** [https://amcrain.github.io/Technical-Writing-Portfolio/](https://amcrain.github.io/Technical-Writing-Portfolio/)

The site is automatically deployed on every push to the `main` branch via GitHub Actions.

## ✨ Key Features

- **Responsive Design**: Optimized for desktop, tablet, and mobile devices using Tailwind CSS
- **Dark Mode**: Toggle between light and dark themes with persistent user preference
- **Multi-Section Navigation**: Easy navigation between About, Resume, and Portfolio sections
- **Portfolio Showcase**: Display of professional projects and accomplishments
- **Resume Section**: Organized experience, education, and skills
- **Professional Layout**: Clean, modern UI with smooth transitions and animations
- **Accessibility**: Built with semantic HTML and ARIA attributes for inclusive design
- **Fast Performance**: Optimized build with Vite for quick load times
- **Automated Deployment**: GitHub Actions CI/CD pipeline for seamless updates

## 🛠 Tech Stack

- **Frontend**: React 19, TypeScript
- **Build Tool**: Vite
- **Styling**: Tailwind CSS
- **Deployment**: GitHub Pages
- **CI/CD**: GitHub Actions

## 📦 Getting Started

### Prerequisites
- Node.js 20.19+ or 22+
- npm or yarn

### Installation

1. Clone the repository:
   ```bash
   git clone https://github.com/amcrain/Technical-Writing-Portfolio.git
   cd Technical-Writing-Portfolio
   ```

2. Install dependencies:
   ```bash
   npm install
   ```

3. Run the development server:
   ```bash
   npm run dev
   ```
   The site will be available at `http://localhost:5173/`

### Build & Deployment

Build for production:
```bash
npm run build
```

Deploy to GitHub Pages:
```bash
npm run deploy
```

The GitHub Actions workflow will automatically deploy on every push to `main`.

## 📝 Project Structure

```
├── components/          # React components (Header, Footer, sections, icons)
├── .github/workflows/   # GitHub Actions CI/CD pipeline
├── index.html          # Entry HTML file
├── App.tsx             # Main App component
├── index.tsx           # React entry point
├── constants.ts        # Content data and configuration
├── types.ts            # TypeScript type definitions
├── vite.config.mjs     # Vite configuration
└── README.md           # Project documentation
```

## � Assets & PDFs

- Portfolio images and PDFs are served from the `public/` directory.
   - Images: drop images into `public/images/` and reference them from `constants.ts` (examples use `public/images/*.jpg` currently). Recommended image size: ~600x400 for consistent card layout.
   - PDFs: place project PDFs in `public/pdfs/` (for example `public/pdfs/PowerPanel-Install-Maintenance-Manual.pdf`). Update `constants.ts`'s `pdfUrl` field if you choose a different filename.

Notes:
- Filenames and paths in `constants.ts` currently point to `public/images/...` and `public/pdfs/...`. If you change names, update `constants.ts` accordingly.

## 🔍 Viewer behavior

- The Portfolio cards expose a single "View Project →" control. If a project has a `pdfUrl` configured, clicking the control opens an embedded PDF viewer modal (served from `public/pdfs/`). If no `pdfUrl` is present, the control navigates to the project's external `link` in a new tab.
- The viewer currently uses an `iframe` for simplicity and broad compatibility. If you'd like richer controls (thumbnails, text selection), we can replace the iframe with `pdfjs-dist` rendering.

## 🌐 Base URL & GitHub Pages

- When deployed to GitHub Pages the site is served under a base path (for example `/Technical-Writing-Portfolio/`). Static assets are resolved relative to the app base URL. The app resolves PDF and image URLs against `import.meta.env.BASE_URL` so assets work both in local dev (`/`) and when deployed under a subpath.
- Recommendation: keep assets in `public/images/` and `public/pdfs/` and use the existing `constants.ts` paths (the app will resolve them correctly). If you need to hardcode a different path, ensure it accounts for the repository base path when deployed.

## �🚀 Workflow

1. Make changes locally in development mode (`npm run dev`)
2. Test and preview changes
3. Commit and push to GitHub
4. GitHub Actions automatically builds and deploys to GitHub Pages
5. Site updates live within seconds

## 📄 License

This project is licensed under the ISC License.

## 🤝 Contributing

Contributions, suggestions, and feedback are welcome! 

---

**Built with React, Vite, and deployed on GitHub Pages**
